# Hello Datawire Connect Example

This example demonstrates how Quark can implement cross-language RPC
using Datawire Connect.

## Datawire Connect Setup

- pip install datawire-cloudtools
- create an org (`dwc create-org`)
- create a service named "hello" (`dwc create-service hello`)

You can use an organization you've already created. If you're creating
a new organization, it can be named whatever you like. The service,
however, _must_ be named `hello`, since that's what the example is 
expecting.

## Hello Service Contract

The Hello service contract is expressed in hello.q. The service
contract includes the service interface (hello.Hello) along with the
value classes (hello.Request and hello.Response) used to interact with
the service. The hello.q file also defines the names of the client and
server stubs (hello.HelloClient, and hello.HelloServer).

### Writing a client

The example provides two clients written to use the service
(pyclient.py, HelloRPCClient.java). Both these clients follow the same
basic pattern. A client instance can be constructed by passing in to
the client constructor the runtime integration and the URL of the
server.

### Writing a server

The server code files (pyserver.py, jsserver.js, HelloRPCServer.java)
also follow the same basic pattern. A server instance can be
constructed by passing in to the server constructor the runtime
integration and the implementation of the contract interface. Then the
integration can serve the service on the given URL.

## Running this example

The clients expect to find the service on http://127.0.0.1:8910/hello
and each server runs there. Thus you may run a single server at a
time, as well as any number of clients.

To get started, download the example by cloning its git repository as
follows:

        git clone https://github.com/datawire/quark.git

All of the directions below assume you are starting from
*repoBase*/examples/helloRPC where *repoBase* is the location where
you cloned the repository above.

### Python

Compile and install the Service Contract in hello.q:

        quark install hello.q --python

Run the Python server with

        python pyserver.py

Run the Python client with

        python pyclient.py

### Java

Compile and install the Service Contract in hello.q:

        quark install hello.q --java

Compile the Java server and client with 

        mvn compile

Run the Java server with

        mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=helloRPC.HelloRPCServer

Run the Java client with

        mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=helloRPC.HelloRPCClient

### JavaScript

Compile and install the Service Contract in hello.q:

        quark install hello.q --javascript

Run the Javascript server with

        node jsserver.js

Run the Javascript client with

        node jsclient.js
